What would you say is your greatest desire in life?
If the Psalmist who wrote Psalm 146 had been asked that question, he probably would have
answered with the words in the opening verses.
Praise John, let my whole being praise Jehovah, I will praise Jehovah all my life.
Is it not also our greatest desire to praise Jehovah forever and to teach others how they
can worship Him along with us?
Those sentiments are nicely expressed in our original song entitled All I Can Give.
Listen to a reciting of the opening words as we watch a portion of the music video.
Oh Heavenly Father, I want to give all I can give.
My desire is to please you and love you as long as I live.
I'll help those who listen to find in your word what they need to preach and to teach
as the way I can really succeed as I praise you, Jehovah.
My faith is getting stronger each day.
I'll reflect on my dedication.
I'll walk in your way.
Be glad that I did not try to sing those words to you.
It is true that our faith gets stronger each day that we praise Jehovah, but what are
those who do not know Him or who lack faith in Him?
As we study the Bible with Him, we want to help them to find in God's word what they
need to worship Jehovah with strong faith.
How can we do that?
Well, faith is based on evidence, so to have faith a person must first acquire an accurate
knowledge of Bible truth on which they can build their faith.
And a good place to start is with Jesus' words at John 17 and 3, which we know very well.
In prayer to Jehovah, he said, this means everlasting life.
They're coming to know you, the only true God, and the one whom you sent Jesus Christ.
Now what is Jesus saying?
Well that to gain everlasting life, people need to develop a personal relationship with
Jehovah, and that requires learning the truth about both God and Christ.
What does that require of us as Bible teachers?
Three things.
First, we have to clear up any confusion on people's minds about the identities of God
and Christ.
And two scriptures that we can use are Jeremiah 10, 10, and Matthew 16, 16.
Jeremiah 10, 10, and Matthew 16, 16.
Jeremiah 10, 10 says, but Jehovah is truly God.
He is the living God.
And at Matthew 16, 16, it reports, Simon Peter answered, you are the Christ, the Son
of the living God.
So Jehovah is the living God, and Jesus is the Son of the living God.
What could be clearer than that?
And yet simply acknowledging these basic facts is not enough.
So then second, we need to help Bible students build strong faith in Jehovah.
As we learned in the first talk of this convention, having faith involves coming to know Jehovah
as a real person trusting in him and forming an unbreakable friendship with him.
This involves learning what Jehovah likes and dislikes and knowing his values and standards.
Then the student can do what God's Son said as recorded John 14 verse 1, exercise faith
in God.
But then Jesus added, exercise faith also in me.
So third, we want to help Bible students build strong faith in Jesus.
What especially do they need to believe about Jesus?
But we can let the Apostle Paul answer, as stated at Ephesians chapter 1 verse 7, Ephesians
1 7, he wrote, by means of him we have the release by ransom through the blood of that
one.
Yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his undeserved kindness.
When a person learns that Jesus gave his life for him personally, then he can begin to exercise
faith in the power of the ransom, that it is the basis for forgiveness of one sins, that
it offers the hope of everlasting life under Christ's kingdom and that it is the greatest
proof of God's love for us.
People need to accept the whole truth about both Jehovah God and Jesus Christ.
But still that is not enough.
For Romans 10, 10, the Bible says with the heart one exercises faith.
A person must not only believe the truth, but must also value it, because only then will
he be motivated to act in harmony with the truth.
Otherwise he could reject convincing evidence of the truthfulness of what he is learning
and continue to hold on to false beliefs and wrong practices.
So we must do all we can to reach the student's heart as we conduct Bible studies.
Now does this seem like a daunting task for you?
Well, we have been given a wonderful new tool with which to build heartfelt faith, the
study book, Enjoy Life Forever, an Interactive Bible Course.
It uses key scriptures, clear reasoning, effective questions, beautiful artwork, and stirring
videos to help the teacher reach the heart of the student and draw out what he truly
believes.
If you have the book, or if you have it in your JW Library app on your phone or tablet,
please open it now to Section 1.
Now look at the lessons in that section that progressively build faith in Jehovah.
In lesson 4, the student learns who the only true God is and that his name is Jehovah.
Lesson 5 builds faith that Jehovah really is the author of the Bible.
Lesson 6 reveals that Jehovah is the creator of the universe in the source of all life.
Lesson 7 explains what Jehovah is like.
He is a real person with many appealing qualities.
And Lesson 8 and 9 show how the student can become God's friend and draw close to him.
Some people however find it difficult to imagine being friends with anyone they cannot see
let alone with God himself.
Open Lesson 8, Lesson 8 you can be Jehovah's friend.
And in the next video, follow along as we see how a teacher uses what is provided in
the book to help her students build faith in Jehovah's desire to be her friend.
As we look in, they are starting to consider the information under 0.6, what Jehovah does
for his friends.
Ok good, now 0.6, what Jehovah does for his friends.
Cassie, can you tap that link?
Jehovah has done so much for me.
I was 14, things that happened in the past started to catch up with me emotionally.
And I felt like everything that had happened in my life was my fault.
Learning from the Bible that God says that He will take my right hand, that He will
fortify me, that He will really help me.
It blew me away.
You mentioned a Bible passage where Jehovah takes our hand.
Can you read that?
And I say a 41, 10 and 13, please, do not be afraid, fry him with you, do not be anxious
for I am your God, I will fortify you, yes, I will help you, I will really hold on to
you with my right hand of righteousness.
13, for I Jehovah your God and grasping your right hand, the one saying to you, do not
be afraid, I will help you.
So Cassie, according to these verses, what is Jehovah promised to do for all of his friends?
Help us when we're down or scared?
Yes, let's look a little closer though.
I will fortify, I will help, I will really hold on.
Does that sound like a friend who can help or a friend who wants to help?
I never thought of God, Jehovah, like that.
Do you think that Jehovah would make a good friend?
Sure.
Why?
In verse 10, Jehovah stretches out his hand to you, which one?
His right.
And then in verse 13, he takes your hand, which one?
My right.
How?
Cassie, come here.
So is Jehovah beside you holding your hand or is he in front?
That's it.
His right hand, taking your right hand, he's facing you.
To pull you up and out, Cassie, what is Jehovah pulled you out of?
Hopelessness, and that is a direct result of friendship with Jehovah.
It grows stronger the more we talk to him.
Let's look at that in the next section, okay?
What a beautiful example of using enjoy life forever to build faith in Jehovah.
This student Cassie appeared troubled and distressed.
But the sister who is teaching her is so compassionate and patient.
And did you notice that the sister did not talk too much?
She just effectively used the video, scripture, and bolded questions to draw out the student's
feelings, and helped her to visualize what Jehovah has promised to do for her.
Our new study book also progressively builds faith in Jesus.
And look at the lessons in that section that progressively build faith in Jesus.
In lesson 15, the student learns who Jesus is and why learning about him is so important.
Lesson 16 outlines what Jesus did on earth and how that affects us.
Lesson 17 explains what Jesus is like and how we can imitate his fine qualities.
Next down to Lesson's 27 and 28, which show that Jesus' death proves how much Jehovah
and Jesus love us.
Many people, however, do not understand the ransom sacrifice of Jesus, or they do not
view it as God's personal gift to them.
But the Apostle Paul believed that with all his heart.
In lesson 27, entitled, how can Jesus' death save us?
And go to point five, the ransom is Jehovah's gift to you.
Now you'll notice that the read scripture is Galatians 2 verse 20.
Galatians 2 20, which reads,
I am nailed to the stake along with Christ.
It is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who is living in union with me.
Indeed, the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who
loved me and handed himself over for me.
Those words should come to mind when answering the last review question for this lesson.
So in this next video, see how a teacher uses the Explore feature at the end of the lesson
to reach the heart of his skeptical student.
As we look in, they are discussing the last review question.
OK, Gene.
The last review question is, how can Jesus' death benefit you?
I suppose I should say that it means forgiveness for my sins, but God's not going to forgive
me.
What makes you feel that way?
I don't feel.
I know.
I made better choices in my business than I did at home.
Sorry.
Gene, scroll down to where it says, explore, and click under, can Jehovah forgive even
serious sins?
OK, got it.
Can you read the second paragraph, please?
Sure.
Some people have committed gross sins and wonder whether God can forgive them.
Happily, the Word of God says the blood of Jesus, His Son, cleanses us from all sin.
Jehovah willingly forgives even serious sins if we have a proper repentance attitude.
The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin.
Through the ransom, Jehovah forgives our sins, even serious ones, and he draws us to them.
But Ron, why should anyone get a free pass?
Because it's not free.
Do you see the scripture link to Isaiah chapter 1, verse 18?
I see it.
Can you read it, please?
From now, and let us set matter straight between us, says Jehovah, though your sins are
like scarlet, they will be made as white as snow.
Though they are as red as crimson cloth, they will become like wool.
So forgiveness of our sins is possible if we set matter straight.
What do you, Gene, think that means?
I need to do what's right.
I'm trying.
Yeah, that's good.
It also involves how we feel.
We should feel sorry.
I'm sorry.
No, that's a good sign, Gene.
Lastly, let Jehovah help you with a step that's the hardest for many of us.
He can help you forgive yourself.
Jesus died for me.
Ron, I think I'm going to need a little more time to process this.
We all do.
Let's go ahead and conclude with a prayer.
And we'll specifically ask Jehovah to strengthen your faith in the ransom and his forgiveness.
Later, when you pray, you can beg him for the same thing.
Thank you.
OK.
Let's say a prayer.
Jehovah, how many times?
Gene needed convincing that Jesus' sacrifice benefited him personally.
If not convinced of that in his heart, he would not have the faith needed to become Jesus'
disciple.
The brother was familiar with the contents of the Explore section, and chose to discuss
with Gene the watch-tower article that could best help him.
At other times, if needed, the teacher could give the student homework to read an article,
or to watch a video from the Explore section and get his observations at the next study
session.
In the video, Ron was going to pray specifically for Jehovah to strengthen Gene's faith in
the ransom and in God's forgiveness of him.
God an excellent way to keep helping the student to draw close to Jehovah and build faith
in God's Word.
God's Spirit produces faith only in people whose heart favors the truth over lies.
Let us use enjoy life forever to teach the truth to those with whom we study the Bible,
and to help build their faith in Jehovah and Jesus.
And let us pray for Jehovah's help to reach their heart.